So in this video,
we're going to go over what the skewed dataset would look like.
I'm going to use the pandas library in Python because it
gives me the freedom of exploring a CSV file pretty quickly.
So I'm going to do import pandas as pd.
I'm going to read my CSV file that is currently under my folders in Jupyter directory.
I want to do df.columns.
This list gives me all the column names.
So let's say if your DataFrame or the CSV file had long columns,
many numbers of columns,
then you'll be able to see the column names without showing all the DataFrame.
So let's execute.
You'll see this warning sign,
but you can ignore it.
So you can see all the column names,
and particularly because I already know what the dataset looks like,
there is months and year column.
Hypothetically, the Summons_Number, Issue_Date,
the Plate_ID will be fairly unique because not many people will
get to get more than two or three times, hopefully, and Registration_State.
Since this is NYC parking violation data,
I'm assuming there will be a bunch of New York State.
Then there will be a bunch of Issue_Date, Violation_Code, yes, maybe.
But we want to focus on year and month for now just
to see how skewed this data is if you were to process over a year and month.
What you can do is you can df.year.value_counts.
You can see this dataset is heavily focused on 2015 and 2014.
So let's do month.value_counts.
This one is more evenly distributed.
You can see the difference is really about like 80,000 tickets,
which is not that much for this dataset.
Let's take a look at the registration state as well.
Here you can see again,
that New York has the highest value here,
and then New Jersey, and the rest of the state.
So let's say if you were to process
your Spark program based on the year or maybe the state column,
then your process for your partition that
is processing over these two years or these two states,
or you don't even have to go New Jersey,
it's just the New York State,
this process will take much longer to process.
For example, let's say we have like 10 workers and they're not evenly distributed,
and then one worker is just processing 2015 record,
and then another one is working on 214, and then the rest,
the eight workers are focusing on processing these,
then obviously those eight workers will be
finished faster than these two because this will take way longer to process. That's it.